 Stock exchanges list shares of common equity as well as other security types, e.g. One way is by the country where the company is domiciled. [1] By country, the largest market was the United States (about 34%), followed by Japan (about 6%) and the United Kingdom (about 6%). [3]As of 2015, there are a total of 60 stock exchanges in the world with a total market capitalization of $69 trillion. Of these, there are 16 exchanges with a market capitalization of $1 trillion or more, and they account for 87% of global market capitalization. Apart from the Australian Securities Exchange, these 16 exchanges are based in one of three continents: North America, Europe and Asia. [4]A stock exchange is an exchange (or bourse)[note 1] where stock brokers and traders can buy and sell shares of stock, bonds, and other securities. Many large companies have their stocks listed on a stock exchange. The exchange may also act as a guarantor of settlement. Other stocks may be traded "over the counter" (OTC), that is, through a dealer. Some large companies will have their stock listed on more than one exchange in different countries, so as to attract international investors. [7]Stock exchanges may also cover other types of securities, such as fixed interest securities (bonds) or (less frequently) derivatives which are more likely to be traded OTC.Trade in stock markets means the transfer (in exchange for money) of a stock or security from a seller to a buyer. This method is used in some stock exchanges and commodity exchanges, and involves traders shouting bid and offer prices. An example of such an exchange is the NASDAQ.A potential buyer bids a specific price for a stock, and a potential seller asks a specific price for the same stock. Buying or selling at the market means you will accept any ask price or bid price for the stock. The DMM's job is to maintain a two-sided market, making orders to buy and sell the security when there are no other buyers or sellers. If a spread exists, no trade immediately takes place – in this case the DMM may use their own resources (money or stock) to close the difference. The process is similar to the New York Stock Exchange. Prior to the 1980s, it consisted of an open outcry exchange. Stockbrokers met on the trading floor of the Palais Brongniart. Some third markets that were popular are Instinet, and later Island and Archipelago (the latter two have since been acquired by Nasdaq and NYSE, respectively). One advantage is that this avoids the commissions of the exchange. However, it also has problems such as adverse selection. [8] Financial regulators are probing dark pools. Because these men also traded with debts, they could be called the first brokers. Bankers in Pisa, Verona, Genoa and Florence also began trading in government securities during the 14th century. Italian companies were also the first to issue shares. 61). Soon thereafter, a lively trade in various derivatives, among which options and repos, emerged on the Amsterdam market. [43]The stock market is one of the most important ways for companies to raise money, along with debt markets which are generally more imposing but do not trade publicly. An economy where the stock market is on the rise is considered to be an up-and-coming economy. Therefore, central banks tend to keep an eye on the control and behavior of the stock market and, in general, on the smooth operation of financial system functions. (Note that such events are predicted to occur strictly by chance, although very rarely.) But the best explanation seems to be that the distribution of stock market prices is non-Gaussian[55] (in which case EMH, in any of its current forms, would not be strictly applicable). As social animals, it is not easy to stick to an opinion that differs markedly from that of a majority of the group. In times of market stress, however, the game becomes more like poker (herding behavior takes over). In other words, capital markets facilitate funds movement between the above-mentioned units. Moreover, both economic and financial theories argue that stock prices are affected by macroeconomic trends. Often, stock market crashes end speculative economic bubbles.There have been famous stock market crashes that have ended in the loss of billions of dollars and wealth destruction on a massive scale. An increasing number of people are involved in the stock market, especially since the social security and retirement plans are being increasingly privatized and linked to stocks and bonds and other elements of the market. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 50% during this stock market crash. It was the beginning of the Great Depression. The SEC modified the margin requirements in an attempt to lower the volatility of common stocks, stock options and the futures market. The New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange introduced the concept of a circuit breaker. In February 2012, the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (IIROC) introduced single-stock circuit breakers. [67][68]The movements of the prices in a market or section of a market are captured in price indices called stock market indices, of which there are many, e.g., the S&P, the FTSE and the Euronext indices. Such indices are usually market capitalization weighted, with the weights reflecting the contribution of the stock to the index. Some examples are exchange-traded funds (ETFs), stock index and stock options, equity swaps, single-stock futures, and stock index futures. These last two may be traded on futures exchanges (which are distinct from stock exchanges—their history traces back to commodity futures exchanges), or traded over-the-counter. The trader eventually buys back the stock, making money if the price fell in the meantime and losing money if it rose. The practice of naked shorting is illegal in most (but not all) stock markets.In margin buying, the trader borrows money (at interest) to buy a stock and hopes for it to rise. In this method, one holds a weighted or unweighted portfolio consisting of the entire stock market or some segment of the stock market (such as the S&P 500 or Wilshire 5000). Taxes are charged by the state over the transactions, dividends and capital gains on the stock market, in particular in the stock exchanges. These fiscal obligations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Some countries[which?] avoid taxing profits on stocks as the profits are already taxed when companies file returns, but double taxation is common at some level in many countries.